---
layout: post
title:  "Scenes"
date:   2016-09-05 11:18:23
categories: designStudio
imageurl: /media/2016-09-05-Story.jpg
---

Story Overview: 

	Scene 1: Montessori School – 

		•	Space is completely open with a variety of interactive installations set up that explore teaching 
		about sound, math, physics, psychology, etc… In an interactive and playful way.  

		•	Our character is playing and encouraging others to play.  

	Scene 2: Chairs – 

		•	Desks are brought in to the space as the Montessori scene is broken down.  Audience members 
		are encouraged to sit within the chairs. 

		•	Our character is refusing to sit, trying to avoid being shuffled into a chair. 

	Scene 3: Departments – 

		•	Walls are pushed into the space separating the space into four quadrants.  Each quadrant 
		represents a different subject, broken down into physics, psychology, art, and music.  

		•	Our character fights against those that are trying to get them to sit in the desk.  They can’t sit or 
		interact with the space in a normal way.  They are drawing on the walls and being disruptive.  

	Scene 4: Corporate America – 

		•	The walls are replaced by people marching in black suits with briefcases.  

		•	Our character is fighting to get through the walls that they have created.  At moments it is a 
		violent fight.  

		•	Finally our character pushes their way to the center they scream and watch as all the walls come 
		tumbling down. 

	Scene 5: Building a new world – 

		•	Our character uses elements of physics, psychology, art, and music to bring together concepts of 
		harmonic motion and create a final finale piece. 



